# BIP322 CryptoSuite v2022

## Abstract

This specification defines a Data Integrity Cryptosuite for use when verifying a BIP322 Signature using the Bitcoin script engine.

## Status of This Document

This document is a draft work in progess.

## 1. Introduction

This specification defines a cryptographic suite for the purpose of creating and verifying proofs for signatures created following the Bitcoin BIP 322 signatures in conformance with the Linked Data Proofs [LD-PROOFS] specification.

In general the suites uses the RDF Dataset Normalization Algorithm [RDF-DATASET-NORMALIZATION] to transform an input document into its canonical form. The cannonical representation is then hashed and signed with a detached signature algorithm. 

## <a id="terminology">2. Terminology</a>

 The following terms are used to describe concepts involved in the generation and verification of the Linked Data Proof signature suite.

**signature suite**

    A specified set of cryptographic primitives typically consisting of a canonicalization algorithm, a message digest algorithm, and a signature algorithm that are bundled together by cryptographers for developers for the purposes of safety and convenience. 
**canonicalization algorithm**

    An algorithm that takes an input document that has more than one possible representation and always transforms it into a canonical form. This process is sometimes also called normalization. 
**message digest algorithm**

    An algorithm that takes a message, prefferably in some canonical form and produces a cryptographic output called a digest that is often many orders of magnitude smaller than the input message. These algorithms are often 1) very fast, 2) non-reversible, 3) cause the output to change significantly when even one bit of the input message changes, and 4) make it infeasible to find two different inputs for the same output. 
**canonical form**

    The output of applying a canonicalization algorithm to an input document. 
**signature algorithm**

    An algorithm that takes an input message and produces an output value where the receiver of the message can mathematically verify that the message has not been modified in transit and came from someone possessing a particular secret. 
**BIP322VerificationAddress2022**

    The type of the verification method for the signature suite BIP322Signature2022. 
**BIP322Signature2022**

    The type of the linked data proof for the signature suite BIP322Signature2022.

## <a id="suite-definition">3. Suite Definition</a>

The BIP322 signature suite 2022 MUST be used in conjunction with the signing and verification algorithms in the Linked Data Proofs [LD-PROOFS] specification. The suite consists of the following algorithms: 


| Parameter | Value | Specification |
|-----------|-------|---------------|
| Canonicalization Algorithm | https://w3id.org/security#URDNA2015 | [RDF-DATASET-NORMALIZATION]
| Message Digest Algoritm | SHA-256 | [RFC6234]
| Signature Algorithm | BIP322 | [BIP322]

### 3.1 Verification Method

 The cryptographic material used to verify a linked data proof is called the verification method. 

 This suite relies on Bitcoin address representations of Bitcoin scriptPublicKeys.

 This suite MAY be used to verify linked data proofs produced by Bitcoin scriptPublicKeys that can be represented as a Bitcoin address. However, it is RECOMMENDED that this suite be used with verification method's of type BIP322VerificationAddress2022.

 #### 3.1.1 BIP322VerificationAddress2022

 TODO: The `id` of the verification method *SHOULD* be ...

The `type` of the verification method *SHOULD* be BIP322VerificationAddress2022.

The `controller` of the verification method *SHOULD* be a URI.

The address property of the verification method *MUST* be a bitcoin scriptPubKey encoded in one of the standard Bitcoin address formats. These are p2pkh, p2sh, p2wpkh, p2wsh, p2tr.

```
EXAMPLE 1
{
    "id": "#vm-0",
    "type": "BIP322VerificationAddress2022",
    "controller": "did:example:2312",
    // A p2wpkh address
    "address": "bc1qz52z3pe9fg3qxv9n6yhxgj7rcn8wsvpq56v9ck"
}
```

### 3.2 Proof Representation

The cryptographic material used to represent a linked data proof is called the proof type.

This site relies on BIP322 signatures represented in the BIP322 Generic Signed Message Format.

#### 3.2.1 BIP322 Signature 2022

The `verificationMethod` property of the proof *SHOULD* be a URI. Dereferencing the `verificationMethod` *SHOULD* result in an object of type BIP322VerificationAddress2022.

The `type` property of the proof *MUST* be BIP322Signature2022.

The `created` property of the proof MUST be an [[ISO_8601]](#iso8601) formated date string. 

The `proofPurpose` of the proof *MUST* be a string, and *SHOULD* match the verification relationship expressed by the verification method `controller`.

The `proofValue` property of the proof *MUST* be a BIP322 Signature produced according to [BIP322], encoded in the Generic Signed Message Format defined in the BIP.

## 4. Test Vectors

TODO: Unsure how the test vectors are related in the ED25519 spec I have been copying.

## 5. Conformance

As well as sections marked as non-normative, all authoring guidelines, diagrams, examples, and notes in this specification are non-normative. Everything else in this specification is normative.

The key words MAY, MUST, RECOMMENDED, and SHOULD in this document are to be interpreted as described in BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here. 

 A **conforming document** is any concrete expression of the data model that complies with the normative statements in this specification. Specifically, all relevant normative statements in Sections [2. Terminology](#terminology) and [3. Suite Definition](#suite-definition) of this document *MUST* be enforced.

A **conforming processor** is any algorithm realized as software and/or hardware that generates or consumes a conforming document. Conforming processors *MUST* produce errors when non-conforming documents are consumed. 

## 6. Security Considerations

TODO

## A. References

### A.1. Normative References

**[ISO_8601]** <a id="iso8601">ISO_8601</a>. URL: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601)